Specs/Deliverable-2.md, before:

# Deliverable 2

This portion of the lab consists of a the functioning CRUD component for creating/editing information in a single database table, supported by services in the BLL.

> **Remember to [reference your issues](./ReadMe.md)** when committing your work through this deliverable.

## CRUD – Single Item CRUD

On this component, the student must provide a means to

* **Insert** new rows of data into a table
* **Update** an existing row of data in a table
* **Delete** (or mark as inactive/not current) a row of data in a table
* **Cancel** editing (this should return the user to the `Query` component)

### Alter Query component to transfer to CRUD component

Alter your Query component to contain a button/link that will transfer you to the CRUD component for entering a new record. Alter each tabular line to transfer an appropriate piece of data to the CRUD component so the associated database record can be retreived and displayed.

### Handling Foreign Keys With Large Data Sets

For many of the scenarios, foreign key information will have to be handled in a search/filter manner. The reason for this is because there are far too many rows of data to put in a single drop-down control. For example, with thousands of *Students* in the database, it is impractical to fill a drop-down and expect a user to find the student they wish to edit. In these situations, a two-step selection process makes the form more manageable by the user. **Consult your specific scenario for further guidance on this matter.**

### Processing Delete

Depending on the scenario and the table, the Delete functionality may not be a physical removal of a row of data. This is because some tables have triggers or other constraints that prevent the removal of existing rows. In these cases where a row cannot be deleted (excluding foreign key constraints preventing removal), the table will have some means of flagging the row as being inactive or not current. **Consult your specific scenario for further guidance on this matter.**

----

## Evaluation - *15%* 

> ***NOTE:** Your code **must** compile. Solutions that do not compile will receive an automatic mark of zero (0).*
>
> If you are unable to get a portion of the assignment to compile, you should:
>
> - Comment out the non-compiling portion of code
> - Identify the non-compiling portion in the **Incomplete Requirements** heading, noting the item's
>   - File name (e.g.: "Account.cs")
>   - Line number(s)
>   - Compiler error number and general message

Your assignment will be marked based upon the following weights. See the [general rubric](./ReadMe.md#generalized-marking-rubric) for details.

| Weight | Earned | Deliverable/Requirement |
| ---- | --------- | -----------------|
| 10 |     | `CRUD` Component correctly functions as per scenario and general specifications |
| ---- | ---- | --------- |
| **10** |    | **Total** |

### Suggest check list

* Lab Documentation (Web Form)
  - [ ] List of known bugs & incomplete portions of lab
* Project Architecture & Code Quality
  - [ ] Proper & consistent use of exceptions and exception handling
  - [ ] Separate BLL classes coded for all the required tables
  - [ ] BLL method(s) required for all form queries
  - [ ] BLL method required for Add
  - [ ] BLL method required for Update
  - [ ] BLL method(s) required for Delete
* Component – Single Item CRUD
  - [ ] Correctly populates DropDownList controls on page load (if required)
  - [ ] Correctly applies a UI for the appropriate search technique (use of filter where requested)
  - [ ] Correctly uses the appropriate search techniques/filters to Foreign Key references (where applicable)
  - [ ] Correctly looks up and displays a single item
  - [ ] Uses disabled (non-editable) controls for all data that is not related to Add/Update functionality
  - [ ] Correctly uses Validation for Add/Update functionality
  - [ ] Correctly adds data to a database
  - [ ] Correctly gives up-to-date feedback on whether the add was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly retains data display whether the add was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly updates data in the database
  - [ ] Correctly gives up-to-date feedback on whether the update was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly retains data display whether the update was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly performs Delete of data (or equivalent) in the database
  - [ ] Correctly gives up-to-date feedback on whether the attempted delete (as applicable) is successful
  - [ ] Correctly retains data display whether the delete was successful or not
  - [ ] Messages correctly identifies items on the web display.
  - [ ] Appropriate error handling has been implemented
  - [ ] Cancel returns user to Query Component
-->

Commit message:

updates for marking and specifications to CRUD

Specs/Deliverable-2.md, after:

# Deliverable 2

This portion of the lab consists of a the functioning CRUD component for creating/editing information in a single database table, supported by services in the BLL.

> **Remember to [reference your issues](./ReadMe.md)** when committing your work through this deliverable.

## CRUD – Single Item CRUD

On this component, the student must provide a means to

* **Insert** new rows of data into a table
* **Update** an existing row of data in a table
* **Delete** (or mark as inactive/not current) a row of data in a table
* **Cancel** editing (clear the form)
* **Return to Query** returns to the `Query` component

### Alter Query component to transfer to CRUD component

Alter your Query component to contain a button/link that will transfer you to the CRUD component for entering a new record. Alter each tabular line to transfer an appropriate piece of data to the CRUD component so the associated database record can be retreived and displayed.
<!-- 
### Handling Foreign Keys With Large Data Sets

For many of the scenarios, foreign key information will have to be handled in a search/filter manner. The reason for this is because there are far too many rows of data to put in a single drop-down control. For example, with thousands of *Students* in the database, it is impractical to fill a drop-down and expect a user to find the student they wish to edit. In these situations, a two-step selection process makes the form more manageable by the user. **Consult your specific scenario for further guidance on this matter.** -->

### CRUD Form

Your `CRUD` component will use an **EditForm**. The form will use the entity validation annotations. The table entity being maintained in your scenario will required custom error messages on the validation annotations. The entity annotations will be limited (unless otherwise authorized or augmented by your instructor) to Required, StringLength, Range, and EmailAddress. Error messages will be display beneath the appropriate field. You will need a success feed back message area. You may also have a validation summary area. Format layout of your form for your scenario is at your degression. 


### Processing Delete

Depending on the scenario and the table, the Delete functionality may not be a physical removal of a row of data. This is because some tables have triggers or other constraints that prevent the removal of existing rows. In these cases where a row cannot be deleted (excluding foreign key constraints preventing removal), the table will have some means of flagging the row as being inactive or not current. **Consult your specific scenario for further guidance on this matter.**

----

## Evaluation - *15%* 

> ***NOTE:** Your code **must** compile. Solutions that do not compile will receive an automatic mark of zero (0).*
>
> If you are unable to get a portion of the assignment to compile, you should:
>
> - Comment out the non-compiling portion of code
> - Identify the non-compiling portion in the **Incomplete Requirements** heading, noting the item's
>   - File name (e.g.: "Account.cs")
>   - Line number(s)
>   - Compiler error number and general message

Your assignment will be marked based upon the following weights. See the [general rubric](./ReadMe.md#generalized-marking-rubric) for details.

| Weight | Earned | Deliverable/Requirement |
| ---- | --------- | -----------------|
| 1 |     | `Query` transfer to CRUD page Button (new record) |
| 1 |     | `CRUD` Cancel/Return button(s)|
| 3 |     | `CRUD` insert new record |
| 3 |     | `CRUD` Update existing record |
| 3 |     | `CRUD` Delete existing row (physical / logical) |
| ---- | ---- | --------- |
| **11** |    | **Total** |

### Suggest check list

* Lab Documentation (Web Form)
  - [ ] List of known bugs & incomplete portions of lab
* Project Architecture & Code Quality
  - [ ] Proper & consistent use of exceptions and exception handling
  - [ ] Separate BLL classes coded for all the required tables
  - [ ] BLL method(s) required for all form queries
  - [ ] BLL method required for Add
  - [ ] BLL method required for Update
  - [ ] BLL method(s) required for Delete
* Component – Single Item CRUD
  - [ ] Correctly populates DropDownList controls on page load (if required)
  - [ ] Correctly applies a UI for the appropriate search technique (use of filter where requested)
  - [ ] Correctly uses the appropriate search techniques/filters to Foreign Key references (where applicable)
  - [ ] Correctly looks up and displays a single item
  - [ ] Uses disabled (non-editable) controls for all data that is not related to Add/Update functionality
  - [ ] Correctly uses Validation for Add/Update functionality
  - [ ] Correctly adds data to a database
  - [ ] Correctly gives up-to-date feedback on whether the add was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly retains data display whether the add was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly updates data in the database
  - [ ] Correctly gives up-to-date feedback on whether the update was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly retains data display whether the update was successful or not
  - [ ] Correctly performs Delete of data (or equivalent) in the database
  - [ ] Correctly gives up-to-date feedback on whether the attempted delete (as applicable) is successful
  - [ ] Correctly retains data display whether the delete was successful or not
  - [ ] Messages correctly identifies items on the web display.
  - [ ] Appropriate error handling has been implemented
  - [ ] Cancel returns user to Query Component
-->
